# Model in Winbugs: a New Class of Binary Regression Models for Unbalanced Data with Applications in Medical Data

**Jorge L. Bazán<sup>1</sup>, V. H. Lachos<sup>2</sup>, and Alex de la Cruz Huayanay<sup>3</sup>**

<sup>1</sup>Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, University of São Paulo, São Carlos, Brazil  
<sup>2</sup>Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, USA  
<sup>3</sup>Department of Sciences, Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, Lima, Peru

**Corresponding author:** Jorge L. Bazán, jlbazan@icmc.usp.br


## Previous installations

To run the scripts, you will need the WinBUGS program through the R2WinBUGS package (see details in Sturtz, S. et al., 2005).

Sturtz, S., Ligges, U., & Gelman, A. (2005). R2WinBUGS: A package for running WinBUGS from R. *Journal of Statistical Software*, 12, 1-16
link: https://www.jstatsoft.org/index.php/jss/article/view/v012i03/33


## File description:

Follow files and folders

1. **Application41.R:** Contain a script that simulate data set from the RGEV or GEV binary regression model and then fit different SMSNobit binary regression. See details on Section 4.1 on the paper.

2. **auxiliar:** Contains auxiliary functions created in R, which are used to calculate various Bayesian model assessment measures and Bayesian case influence diagnostics, as studied in Sections 4.3 and 4.4 respectively.

3. **bugsmodels:** A folder containing WinBUGS codes for the SMSNobit models.

4. **output:** A folder storing the outputs of the graphs generated by the Application41.R program.

5. **outwinbugs:** A folder storing the output files generated by the WinBUGS program when executing the Application41.R program.


## Instructions for Executing R and WinBUGS Codes

The following instructions describe how to execute the codes in R and WinBUGS:

1. Open the file Application41.R and run the script in R.
3. Note that for default are consided the following MCMC values: niter=3000, nburnin=1000, nthin=2.
If want to reproduce results on Section 4.1 modify to MCMC values on the paper.
